### Pattrens rules to keep in maind

#### the patterens we are solving will be nested loops

1. for the outer loop cout the no of lines
2. for the inner loop focuse on the column and somehow connect them with rows
3. print # in the innerfor loop

4. (optional) observe the symmetry

` Here are some patterns you can try! They range from basic to more complex to
give you a good variety of challenges.

1. Solid Rectangle markdown Copy code

---

---

---

Input: rows = 3, columns = 5 Output: a solid rectangle with 3 rows and 5
columns. 2. Hollow Rectangle markdown Copy code

---

-
  -

---

Input: rows = 3, columns = 5 Output: a rectangle with borders only. 3.
Right-Angled Triangle markdown Copy code * **

---

---

Input: rows = 4 Output: triangle aligned on the left. 4. Inverted Right-Angled
Triangle markdown Copy code

---

---

** * Input: rows = 4 Output: an inverted triangle. 5. Pyramid Pattern markdown
Copy code *

---

---

Input: rows = 3 Output: centered triangle or pyramid. 6. Diamond Pattern
markdown Copy code *

---

---

---

-

Input: rows = 5 Output: a diamond shape with odd row count for symmetry. 7.
Number Pyramid Copy code 1 2 2 3 3 3 Input: rows = 3 Output: pyramid with
numbers. 8. Floyd's Triangle Copy code 1 2 3 4 5 6 Input: rows = 3 Output:
triangle filled with consecutive numbers. 9. Pascalâ€™s Triangle Copy code 1 1 1 1
2 1 Input: rows = 3 Output: Pascal's triangle with binomial coefficients. 10.
Checkerboard Pattern markdown Copy code

---

---

---

---

Input: rows = 4, columns = 4 Output: an alternating checkerboard pattern. These
patterns test a mix of loops, conditions, and formatting skills. Let me know if
you'd like hints for any specific pattern!

You said: some more ChatGPT said: ChatGPT Here are some more challenging
patterns to test your skills further!

11. Butterfly Pattern markdown Copy code

-
  -

---

---

---

---

---

---

-
  -

Input: n = 4 Output: a mirrored butterfly shape. 12. Hourglass Pattern markdown
Copy code

---

---

---

---

    *

---

---

---

---

Input: n = 5 Output: a pattern that resembles an hourglass shape. 13. Hollow
Diamond in a Square markdown Copy code

---

-
  -

---

-
  -

---

Input: n = 5 (odd number) Output: a hollow diamond pattern within a square. 14.
Zig-Zag Pattern markdown Copy code

---

---

---

Input: n = 3 (number of rows) Output: creates a zig-zag pattern across 3 rows.
15. Number Diamond Pattern markdown Copy code 1 121 12321 1234321 12321 121 1
Input: n = 4 (half the height of the diamond) Output: diamond with ascending and
descending numbers. 16. Sandglass of Numbers Copy code 1234321 12321 121 1 121
12321 1234321 Input: n = 4 Output: a sandglass shape with numbers decreasing and
increasing in rows. 17. Right-Angled Triangle with Increasing Numbers Copy code
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Input: rows = 4 Output: each row has consecutive numbers
that increase. 18. Hollow Pyramid Pattern with Stars markdown Copy code *

-
  -
-
  -

---

Input: rows = 4 Output: a hollow pyramid with spaces inside. 19. Waves of Stars
markdown Copy code

---

---

---

-
  -

Input: width and height, varying spaces Output: stars placed in a wavy or
sinusoidal pattern. 20. Solid Diamond with Dots markdown Copy code * _._ _..._
_....._ _..._ _._ * Input: n = 4 (half the height of the diamond) Output: a
diamond shape where each row adds more dots.

`
